# Chord

- [About](#about)
- [Usage](#usage)

## About

This project is a lightweight `git` workspace management tool, meant to be used
for projects that are made up of multiple repos. Instead of using the native
`git` submodules, this tool provides an easier way of declaring and pinning 
external repo dependencies via mainfest files.

This project was mainly started as a way to learn rust. It is inspired by a few
other existing tools, namely:

1. Zephyr's `west` tool
2. Google's `repo` tool
3. `gitman`

These all seemed to be written in Python, so I figured writing my own version
in rust would be a good way to learn the language since it seems relatively
straightforward enough and there's existing projects that can serve as a
reference and point of comparison. Main improvements `chord` has compared to
the aforementioned ones are the following:

1. *No dependencies*
    - Aforementioned tools require Python, Chord would be just the single
    binary.
2. *Purpose Built*, 
    - `west` includes a lot more functionality related to building embedded C
        projects, the repo mangement functionality is in addition to that.
    - `repo` seems to have been targetted for Android development, although
        there's nothing stopping someone from using it for other projects.
    - `gitman` ¯\\_(ツ)_/¯

***AI Disclosure: The codebase has little to no code that was generated by AI.
This was/is developed while I was still learning Rust, so I did lean a bit on
AI as a smarter search engine for figuring out the correct way to do certain
things in Rust. Best example of generated code that comes to mind is in 
`libgit2.rs` in the `rev_as_hash` function, which was done by converting my
original attempt to more "idiomatic" Rust. Otherwise, the code was pretty much
all handwritten.**

## Usage
```
Usage: chord <COMMAND>

Commands:
  init    Initializes the chord manifest directory and file
  topdir  Prints the chord workspace root
  sync    Clones missing repos, fetches, and checks out to whatever is in the lockfile, defaults to chord manifest if there is no lockfile provided
  update  Performs same operations as sync, key difference being that it uses the manifest, regardless of whether there's a lockfile or not
  help    Print this message or the help of the given subcommand(s)

Options:
  -h, --help     Print help
  -V, --version  Print version
```
